Add blog article : delegate with trust (#889)
nats-io/nats-site: content/blog/jeststream-eventual-consistency.md

Sadly our partner who triggers the payment can call us multiple times with sometimes 1 day of delay.

Here we use one subject by order to store its payment log.
The subject will contains only one message the withdrawal.
Using publish expectations, I can be sure that there will be only one subject by order’s payment.

```typescript
// connect to NATS
const nc = connect();
// create a jetstream client:
const js = nc.jetstream();
const orderID = shortUID();
// The message should be the first on the subject
await js.publish(`payment.${orderID}`, Empty, {
	expect: { lastSubjectSequence: 0 }
});
```

## The fat finger
The customer always clicks multiple times on the same button, so it calls the backend and duplicates messages !
This triggers side effects multiples times creating spam, and exploding the BI.

NATS JetStream embed a deduplication system based on message ID for a given window. The window is configured in nano seconds at the stream level.

```typescript
// connect to NATS
const nc = connect();
// create the stream
const jsm = await nc.jetstreamManager();
await jsm.streams.add({
	name: "a",
	subjects: ["a.*"],
	// Deduplicate for 5 seconds

> 	duplicate_window: 5.000.000.000

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	duplicate_window: 5_000_000_000
```

Author: Thank you @yordis

});
// create a jetstream client:
const js = nc.jetstream();
// if this message is published twice within 5s, only the first published will be stored
await js.publish("a.b", Empty, { msgID: "a" });
```

## Order maintenance
I have a payment system, for the refund process, I need first to have a double human validation. Then the refund can append. And it must append only once.

For a refund subject, I will say that the refund must be exactly in 3rd place or crash.
```typescript
// connect to NATS
const nc = connect();
// create a jetstream client:
const js = nc.jetstream();
const orderID = shortUID();
// The message should be the first on the subject
await js.publish(`refund.${orderID}`, Empty, {
	expect: { lastSubjectSequence: 3 }

> });

Reviewer 2: There are two issues with this example.

If the "third place" is required, the last subject sequence would be 2 since this new message would result in sequence 3.

However, the bigger issue is that the sequence applies to the whole stream, not on a per-subject basis. With a single refund in the stream, this would work, but when the second refund occurs, the sequence of the "third event" would be 6:

```
refund.100 -> seq 1
refund.100 -> seq 2
refund.100 -> seq 3
refund.200 -> seq 4
refund.200 -> seq 5
refund.200 -> seq 6
```

And this assumes these events are not interleaved. A correct way to model this is to either get the last message by subject, assert this is a proper state transition and use that sequence number as the expected one. Of if you need more than just the last message for the subject, you can take the same approach as in the Business rule example below of creating a temporary consumer.

```

## Business rule
On my order process, I can’t refund more than the price of the order.

I can query my order subject like I would query my database. Data is up to date.

> Here I’ll check the OrderPassed event to get the amount and my business rule

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here I’ll check the `OrderPassed` event to get the amount and my business rule.
```

```typescript

> // connect to NATS
> const nc = connect();

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
const nc = connect();
```

const jsm = await nc.jetstreamManager();
const codec = JSONCodec();

> const refund = {
> 	amount: 10
> };
> // Create a temporary consumer fetching all events for my order ID
> const c = await jsm.consumers.add(stream, {
>    filterSubject: `*.${orderID}`
>    ack_policy: AckPolicy.None,
>  });
> 
> // Get all messages for this order from the beginning
> // and publish only if condition match
> const messages = await c.fetch();
> for await (const m of messages) {
> 	const event = codec.decode(m.body);
> 	if(event.name == 'OrderProcessed') {
> 		if(event.data.price < refund.amount) {
> 			await js.publish(`refund.${orderID}`, codec.encode(refund)})
> 			break;
> 		}
> 	}
>   }
> }

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

const refund = {
	amount: 10
};

// Create an temporary ordered consumer fetching all events for my order ID.
const c = await js.consumers.get(stream, {
   filterSubject: `*.${orderID}`
 });

// Get all messages for this order and publish only if the condition matches.
const messages = await c.consume();
for await (const m of messages) {
	const event = codec.decode(m.body);
	if(event.name == 'OrderProcessed') {
		if(event.data.price < refund.amount) {
			await js.publish(`refund.${orderID}`, codec.encode(refund)})
			break;
		}
  }
}
```

☝️ Updated to the new consumer API.. this created an ordered (ephemeral) consumer. However, one thing to note if that if the condition is not satisfied, it will block until it is. This would be fine for an async process that needs to be eventually satisfied.

```
Yes message processing like this can help to build a state from all previous events. You rebuild the freshest state fetching previous events.

> All this solutions could live more elegantly in an [Aggreate](https://domaincentric.net/blog/event-sourcing-aggregates-vs-projections) if you need this tactic.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All these solutions could be applied elegantly in an [Aggreate](https://domaincentric.net/blog/event-sourcing-aggregates-vs-projections) if you need this tactic.
```
